CLOUDINARY_SETUP.md, before:

# Cloudinary Integration Setup

This project now uses Cloudinary as the primary storage provider for file uploads instead of Firebase Storage. This provides better image optimization, URL transformations, and CDN delivery.

## Environment Variables

Add the following environment variables to your `.env.local` file:

```bash
# Cloudinary Configuration
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME=your_cloud_name
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLOUDINARY_UPLOAD_PRESET=ml_default
# Only needed for server-side operations (file deletion)
CLOUDINARY_API_SECRET=your_api_secret
```

## Cloudinary Setup

1. **Create a Cloudinary Account**: Sign up at [cloudinary.com](https://cloudinary.com)

2. **Get Your Credentials**: 
   - Go to your Cloudinary Dashboard
   - Copy your Cloud Name and API Secret (for server-side operations)

3. **Create an Upload Preset**:
   - Go to Settings > Upload
   - Scroll down to "Upload presets"
   - Click "Add upload preset"
   - Set signing mode to "Unsigned" for client-side uploads
   - Save the preset name (default: `ml_default`)

## Features

### Real Progress Tracking
- Uses Cloudinary's XMLHttpRequest for real upload progress
- No fake progress bars - shows actual upload status
- Better user experience with accurate progress feedback

### Automatic Image Optimization
- Images are automatically optimized using Cloudinary's URL transformations
- Responsive images with different sizes for different screen sizes
- Automatic format conversion (WebP, AVIF) for better performance

### URL Transformations
The system automatically applies URL transformations for:
- **Thumbnails**: 48x48px with 70% quality
- **Preview Images**: 400x300px with 80% quality
- **Responsive Images**: Different sizes for different breakpoints

### File Management
- Files are organized in folders by user ID: `uploads/{userId}/`
- Automatic cleanup when files are deleted
- Support for images, audio, and video files

## Usage

The integration is transparent to the user. All existing functionality works the same way:

1. **Upload Files**: Drag and drop or click to upload
2. **Preview Files**: Click on thumbnails to view full-size previews
3. **Delete Files**: Click the trash icon to remove files
4. **Retry Uploads**: Failed uploads can be retried

## Migration from Firebase Storage

If you have existing files in Firebase Storage:
1. The system will continue to work with existing Firebase URLs
2. New uploads will use Cloudinary
3. You can gradually migrate existing files if needed

## Performance Benefits

- **Faster Loading**: CDN delivery and optimized images
- **Reduced Bandwidth**: Automatic compression and format optimization
- **Better UX**: Progressive loading and responsive images
- **Scalability**: Cloudinary's global CDN infrastructure

Commit message:

Add Cloudinary upload testing page and improve configuration validation
Co-authored-by: ashishpal <ashishpal@gofynd.com>

CLOUDINARY_SETUP.md, after:

# Cloudinary Integration Setup

This project now uses Cloudinary as the primary storage provider for file uploads instead of Firebase Storage. This provides better image optimization, URL transformations, and CDN delivery.

## Environment Variables

Add the following environment variables to your `.env.local` file:

```bash
# Cloudinary Configuration
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME=your_cloud_name
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLOUDINARY_UPLOAD_PRESET=ml_default
# Only needed for server-side operations (file deletion)
CLOUDINARY_API_SECRET=your_api_secret
```

## Cloudinary Setup

1. **Create a Cloudinary Account**: Sign up at [cloudinary.com](https://cloudinary.com)

2. **Get Your Credentials**: 
   - Go to your Cloudinary Dashboard
   - Copy your Cloud Name and API Secret (for server-side operations)

3. **Create an Upload Preset** (This is your upload token):
   - Go to Settings > Upload
   - Scroll down to "Upload presets"
   - Click "Add upload preset"
   - Set signing mode to "**Unsigned**" for client-side uploads
   - Set folder to "uploads" (optional, for organization)
   - Save the preset name (e.g., `ml_default`)
   - **Important**: The preset name acts as your upload token for unsigned uploads

4. **Test Your Setup**:
   - Visit `/test-cloudinary` in your app to test the upload functionality
   - This will verify your environment variables and upload preset are working correctly

## Features

### Real Progress Tracking
- Uses Cloudinary's XMLHttpRequest for real upload progress
- No fake progress bars - shows actual upload status
- Better user experience with accurate progress feedback

### Automatic Image Optimization
- Images are automatically optimized using Cloudinary's URL transformations
- Responsive images with different sizes for different screen sizes
- Automatic format conversion (WebP, AVIF) for better performance

### URL Transformations
The system automatically applies URL transformations for:
- **Thumbnails**: 48x48px with 70% quality
- **Preview Images**: 400x300px with 80% quality
- **Responsive Images**: Different sizes for different breakpoints

### File Management
- Files are organized in folders by user ID: `uploads/{userId}/`
- Automatic cleanup when files are deleted
- Support for images, audio, and video files

## Usage

The integration is transparent to the user. All existing functionality works the same way:

1. **Upload Files**: Drag and drop or click to upload
2. **Preview Files**: Click on thumbnails to view full-size previews
3. **Delete Files**: Click the trash icon to remove files
4. **Retry Uploads**: Failed uploads can be retried

## Migration from Firebase Storage

If you have existing files in Firebase Storage:
1. The system will continue to work with existing Firebase URLs
2. New uploads will use Cloudinary
3. You can gradually migrate existing files if needed

## Performance Benefits

- **Faster Loading**: CDN delivery and optimized images
- **Reduced Bandwidth**: Automatic compression and format optimization
- **Better UX**: Progressive loading and responsive images
- **Scalability**: Cloudinary's global CDN infrastructure

## Troubleshooting

### Upload Fails
1. **Check Environment Variables**: Ensure `NEXT_PUBLIC_CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME` and `NEXT_PUBLIC_CLOUDINARY_UPLOAD_PRESET` are set
2. **Verify Upload Preset**: Make sure the preset is set to "Unsigned" mode
3. **Test Configuration**: Use the `/test-cloudinary` page to verify your setup

### Common Errors
- **"Upload preset not found"**: Check that the preset name matches exactly
- **"Invalid signature"**: This shouldn't happen with unsigned uploads
- **"Cloud name not found"**: Verify your cloud name is correct

### Security Notes
- Upload presets for unsigned uploads are safe to expose in client-side code
- Only the API secret needs to be kept private (used only for server-side deletion)
